Episode 18, Elizabeth.
I strode into Miki’s office, and there he was, leaning
against his huge solid oak desk, looking as youthful as ever.
“I see you charmed George into those investments,” I noted.
“I suppose you think you can charm me, too.”
Miki’s face immediately broke into a warm smile.
“Would this help?” he asked, passing me a glass of wine, “It’s a 1972 Chateauneuf-du-Pape.”
“ Perhaps,” I said, taking the wine, “ but we're here drinking a hundred pound
bottle of wine while people are out there starving… for food and for freedoms.”
“ This one’s actually closer to £500,” Miki noted, a sly grin coming over his face.
He grew more serious.
“Elizabeth, if I want to allow more freedoms, I need to develop the country.
George has agreed to help, but nobody will invest if there are
continuous negative stories about Ankhazastan in the global press.”
“Miki,” I said, softening my tone a little, “I’m scared that the stories are true.
They say that you’re a dictator.
They say that people are tortured in your prisons.
Miki… it hurts me to ask you this… but are you
becoming something you promised me you would never be?”
Miki drained his glass and set it down on the desk.
He said, “I’m a man who likes the finer things in life,
and I’m a man in charge of a country where life is tough.
But I am passionately trying to make life better for my people.
I’m no dictator and I never will be”, he said, looking me directly in the eyes.
It felt good to hear Miki say this with such authority and, for the moment, my doubts disappeared.
“Then, Miki, where do all of these stories come from?
I said, Before we left London, there was a story…”
Miki held up his hand.
“Elizabeth, imagine if only negative stories were reported about the UK.
The country would look very different.
There were riots in a UK prison last month.
What is it…28 per cent of children are living in poverty?
Tens of thousands of people live on the streets.
A disabled man was beaten to death in police custody last year.
Imagine if these were the only stories we ever heard about the UK.
Everyone would say it was a cruel and unfair country that oppresses its citizens.”
I nodded my head.
Miki had always had a way with words and I remembered how he had led the
debating team at Hemsworth, even with English as his second language.
But, he was right, the media really was biased.
I should know, PR is my game, after all.
“I can carry out a public relations campaign for you, Miki,” I said,
“and I can get positive stories about Ankhazastan in the media and on
the Internet… even written into movie scripts, but I have one condition.
I will do this if you let George and me travel around Ankhazastan
and see things for ourselves – no guys in uniform, no driver.”
Miki smiled and refilled both of our glasses with wine.
“Of course!” he said happily.
“But I also have a condition.
You will see a very poor country… don’t see it for what it is now.
See it for what it can become five years from now.”
We drank some wine and I relaxed in his company.
He refilled the glasses once again.
As he passed me the wine, our fingers touched, and his hand lingered.
He moved towards me, expectantly, but… I turned my head.
“ Miki, no, I…”, I said, putting my hand up to stop his advances.
“ Of course, forgive me,” he replied, hanging his head.
It was a moment I had been waiting twenty years for, but when it came, everything had changed.
Miki was no longer the innocent son-of-some-random-country’s-leader;
he was the President of Ankhazastan and my future client.
What’s more, I was to be married in a few months.
No, no and no, I told myself.
This was business, pure and simple.
I needed to keep it that way.